README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/X24Labs/SWAgent/main/assets/social-preview.png" alt="SWAgent - AI-first API documentation" width="640">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@swagent/core"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@swagent/core?label=npm&color=cb3837" alt="npm version"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/X24Labs/SWAgent/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue" alt="License MIT"></a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.7-3178c6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white" alt="TypeScript">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/frameworks-7-green" alt="7 frameworks">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Node%20%7C%20Bun%20%7C%20Deno-999" alt="platform">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#quick-start">Quick Start</a> &middot;
  <a href="#frameworks">Frameworks</a> &middot;
  <a href="#cli">CLI</a> &middot;
  <a href="#configuration">Config</a>
</p>

---

## Why

LLM agents read your docs too. Swagger UI is built for humans clicking through a browser. SWAgent generates three outputs from one OpenAPI spec:

| Output | For | What it is |
|--------|-----|------------|
| **`llms.txt`** | AI agents | Token-optimized compact notation, ~60% smaller than raw JSON |
| **`to-humans.md`** | Developers | Full markdown reference with ToC, parameter tables, response schemas |
| **`index.html`** | Discovery | Semantic HTML landing page, dark-themed, zero JavaScript |

Your API becomes readable by both humans and machines without maintaining separate docs.

## What llms.txt looks like

A 20-endpoint OpenAPI spec compresses into something like this:

```
# Pet Store API

> A sample API for managing pets and orders.

Base: https://api.petstore.io
Docs: [HTML](https://api.petstore.io/) | [OpenAPI JSON](https://api.petstore.io/openapi.json)

## Auth Methods
- JWT: `Authorization: Bearer <token>` via POST /auth/login
- API Key: `X-API-Key: <key>` header

## Conventions
- Auth: JWT = Bearer token, KEY = API Key, JWT|KEY = either, NONE = no auth
- `*` after field name = required, all fields string unless noted with `:type`
- Common errors: 400/401/404 return `{success:false, error}`

---

## Auth

### POST /auth/login - Login | NONE
Body: `{email*, password*}`
200: `{token, expiresIn:number}`

## Pets

### GET /pets - List pets | JWT
Query: ?page:integer ?limit:integer ?species
200: `{data:[{id, name, species, age:number}], total:number}`

### POST /pets - Create pet | JWT
Body: `{name*, species*, age:number, vaccinated:boolean}`
200: `{id, name}`

### GET /pets/{petId} - Get pet | JWT|KEY
Path: :petId*
200: `{id, name, species, age:number, vaccinated:boolean, owner:{id, name}}`
```

Compact notation: `*` = required, `:type` = non-string, `{...}` = object, `[...]` = array.

An LLM agent reads this with minimal token cost and immediately knows every endpoint, auth method, and schema.

## Quick start

### Three lines, four endpoints

```typescript
import { swagentFastify } from '@swagent/fastify';

// After registering @fastify/swagger with your routes:
app.register(swagentFastify, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' });

// GET /           -> HTML landing page
// GET /llms.txt   -> Token-optimized for AI agents
// GET /to-humans.md -> Full markdown docs
// GET /openapi.json -> OpenAPI JSON spec
```

That's it. Your API now serves AI-readable docs alongside human ones.

## Frameworks

### Fastify

```bash
npm install @swagent/fastify
```

```typescript
import Fastify from 'fastify';
import swagger from '@fastify/swagger';
import { swagentFastify } from '@swagent/fastify';

const app = Fastify();

app.register(swagger, {
  openapi: {
    info: { title: 'My API', version: '1.0.0' },
    servers: [{ url: 'https://api.example.com' }],
  },
});

// Define your routes with schemas as usual...

app.register(swagentFastify, {
  baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com',
});
```

Reads the spec from `@fastify/swagger` automatically. Content is generated once at startup.

### Express

```bash
npm install @swagent/express
```

```typescript
import express from 'express';
import { swagentExpress } from '@swagent/express';

const app = express();
const spec = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('./openapi.json', 'utf-8'));

app.use(swagentExpress(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or mount on a subpath:
app.use('/docs', swagentExpress(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));
```

Takes the OpenAPI spec as a parameter. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### Hono

```bash
npm install @swagent/hono
```

```typescript
import { Hono } from 'hono';
import { swagentHono } from '@swagent/hono';

const app = new Hono();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };

app.route('/', swagentHono(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or on a subpath:
app.route('/docs', swagentHono(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));
```

### Elysia

```bash
npm install @swagent/elysia
```

```typescript
import { Elysia } from 'elysia';
import { swagentElysia } from '@swagent/elysia';

const app = new Elysia();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };

app.use(swagentElysia(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or with a prefix:
app.use(
  new Elysia({ prefix: '/docs' })
    .use(swagentElysia(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }))
);
```

Bun-native. Follows the Elysia plugin pattern with `.use()`. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### Koa

```bash
npm install @swagent/koa
```

```typescript
import Koa from 'koa';
import { swagentKoa } from '@swagent/koa';

const app = new Koa();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };
const swagent = swagentKoa(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' });

app.use(swagent.routes());
app.use(swagent.allowedMethods());

// Or mount on a subpath with @koa/router:
const Router = require('@koa/router');
const parent = new Router();
parent.use('/docs', swagent.routes(), swagent.allowedMethods());
app.use(parent.routes());
```

Returns a `@koa/router` Router instance. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### h3 (Nitro / Nuxt)

```bash
npm install @swagent/h3
```

```typescript
import { createApp } from 'h3';
import { swagentH3 } from '@swagent/h3';

const app = createApp();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };

app.use(swagentH3(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or in a Nitro server middleware (server/middleware/swagent.ts):
import { useBase } from 'h3';
export default useBase('/docs', swagentH3(spec).handler);
```

Returns an h3 Router. Compatible with h3, Nitro, and Nuxt server routes. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### NestJS

```bash
npm install @swagent/nestjs
```

**Option 1: Module pattern** (DI-based, NestJS-idiomatic)

```typescript
import { SwagentModule } from '@swagent/nestjs';

@Module({
  imports: [
    SwagentModule.register({
      spec: openApiDocument,
      baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com',
    }),
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

**Option 2: Setup pattern** (mirrors `SwaggerModule.setup()`)

```typescript
import { SwagentModule } from '@swagent/nestjs';
import { SwaggerModule, DocumentBuilder } from '@nestjs/swagger';

const config = new DocumentBuilder()
  .setTitle('My API')
  .setVersion('1.0')
  .build();
const document = SwaggerModule.createDocument(app, config);

SwaggerModule.setup('api', app, document);
SwagentModule.setup(app, document, { path: '/docs' });
```

The module pattern uses NestJS DI with lazy caching. The setup pattern registers routes directly on the HTTP adapter with full route customization.

### Core (programmatic)

```bash
npm install @swagent/core
```

```typescript
import { generate } from '@swagent/core';

const spec = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('./openapi.json', 'utf-8'));
const output = generate(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' });

output.llmsTxt;      // Token-optimized markdown string
output.humanDocs;    // Full markdown string
output.htmlLanding;  // Complete HTML string
```

## CLI

```bash
npx swagent generate ./openapi.json
```

```bash
# Full options
swagent generate ./openapi.json -o ./docs -b https://api.example.com -f all

# From a URL
swagent generate https://api.example.com/openapi.json

# Single format
swagent generate ./spec.json -f llms-txt
swagent generate ./spec.json -f human
swagent generate ./spec.json -f html

# Watch mode: regenerate on spec changes
swagent generate ./spec.json --watch
```

| Flag | Short | Default | Description |
|------|-------|---------|-------------|
| `--output-dir` | `-o` | `./docs` | Output directory |
| `--base-url` | `-b` | from spec | Base URL for generated docs |
| `--format` | `-f` | `all` | `llms-txt`, `human`, `html`, or `all` |
| `--title` | `-t` | from spec | Override API title |
| `--theme` | | `dark` | `dark` or `light` |
| `--watch` | `-w` | `false` | Watch spec file for changes and regenerate |

Outputs: `llms.txt`, `to-humans.md`, `index.html`

## Token optimization

SWAgent compresses your OpenAPI spec into a compact notation designed to minimize token usage while preserving all the information an LLM agent needs.

| Technique | Example |
|-----------|---------|
| Required fields | `name*` instead of `"name": { "required": true }` |
| Type annotations | `age:number` instead of `"age": { "type": "number" }` |
| Inline objects | `{id, name, email}` instead of full JSON schema |
| Auth shorthands | `JWT`, `KEY`, `NONE` instead of full security definitions |
| Convention dedup | Common errors defined once, not repeated per endpoint |
| Response focus | Only 200 responses (errors covered by conventions) |

Result: **~60% smaller** than raw OpenAPI JSON, **~50% smaller** than standard markdown docs.

## Configuration

All adapters and the CLI accept the same options:

```typescript
{
  // Base URL of the API
  baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com',

  // Override the API title from the spec
  title: 'My API',

  // Color theme for HTML landing (default: 'dark')
  theme: 'dark' | 'light',

  // Route paths (adapters only)
  routes: {
    landing: '/',              // or false to disable
    llmsTxt: '/llms.txt',     // or false to disable
    humanDocs: '/to-humans.md', // or false to disable
    openapi: '/openapi.json',  // or false to disable
  },
}
```

### Custom routes

```typescript
app.register(swagentFastify, {
  routes: {
    landing: '/docs',
    llmsTxt: '/docs/llms.txt',
    humanDocs: '/docs/humans.md',
    openapi: '/docs/spec.json',
  },
});
```

### Disable specific routes

```typescript
app.use(swagentExpress(spec, {
  routes: {
    humanDocs: false,  // Don't serve markdown
    openapi: false,    // Don't expose raw spec
  },
}));
```

## Caching

Every adapter returns `ETag` and `Cache-Control: public, max-age=3600` headers on all endpoints. Clients that send `If-None-Match` with a matching ETag receive a `304 Not Modified` response with no body, saving bandwidth on repeated requests. The landing page also returns `Vary: accept` since its response varies by the `Accept` header.

## Content negotiation

The landing page (`GET /`) supports content negotiation via the `Accept` header:

- `Accept: text/html` (default) — returns the HTML landing page
- `Accept: text/markdown` — returns the `llms.txt` content with `Content-Type: text/markdown`

When serving markdown, the response includes an `x-markdown-tokens: N` header with an estimated token count. This is useful for LLM agents that want to check token cost before consuming the full response.

Works with Cloudflare CDN and any cache that respects `Vary: accept`.

```bash
# Get the HTML landing page (default)
curl https://api.example.com/

# Get llms.txt via content negotiation
curl -H "Accept: text/markdown" https://api.example.com/

# Check token count without downloading
curl -I -H "Accept: text/markdown" https://api.example.com/
# x-markdown-tokens: 1842
```

## Error handling

If the OpenAPI spec is malformed or generation fails for any reason, all adapters serve fallback content instead of crashing. Endpoints return a `200` with a "Documentation generation failed" message so your application stays up while the spec issue is resolved.

## Route map

Every adapter serves the same four routes by default:

| Route | Content-Type | Description |
|-------|-------------|-------------|
| `GET /` | `text/html` or `text/markdown` | Landing page (HTML default). Send `Accept: text/markdown` to receive the `llms.txt` content directly. |
| `GET /llms.txt` | `text/plain` | Compact notation optimized for LLM token budgets |
| `GET /to-humans.md` | `text/markdown` | Full reference with ToC, parameter tables, schemas |
| `GET /openapi.json` | `application/json` | Raw OpenAPI spec passthrough |

## Packages

| Package | Description | Peer deps |
|---------|-------------|-----------|
| [`@swagent/core`](packages/core) | Generators and types | none |
| [`@swagent/fastify`](packages/fastify) | Fastify plugin | `fastify >=4` |
| [`@swagent/express`](packages/express) | Express middleware | `express >=5` |
| [`@swagent/hono`](packages/hono) | Hono middleware | `hono >=4` |
| [`@swagent/elysia`](packages/elysia) | Elysia plugin | `elysia >=1.4` |
| [`@swagent/koa`](packages/koa) | Koa middleware | `koa >=2`, `@koa/router >=12` |
| [`@swagent/h3`](packages/h3) | h3 middleware | `h3 ^1.13` |
| [`@swagent/nestjs`](packages/nestjs) | NestJS module | `@nestjs/common >=10`, `@nestjs/core >=10` |
| [`swagent`](packages/cli) | CLI tool | none |

## Development

```bash
bun install
bun run build
bun run test -- --run
bun run typecheck
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repo
2. Create your branch (`git checkout -b feature/thing`)
3. Write tests for new functionality
4. Make sure all tests pass (`bun run test -- --run`)
5. Submit a PR

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: elevate content negotiation visibility in landing and README
Replace subtle formats-tip with a prominent MACHINE-READABLE callout
block (accent left-border, description, live curl command). Rewrite
README content negotiation section with value-first copy: agents hit
the root URL directly, no /llms.txt discovery step required.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/X24Labs/SWAgent/main/assets/social-preview.png" alt="SWAgent - AI-first API documentation" width="640">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@swagent/core"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@swagent/core?label=npm&color=cb3837" alt="npm version"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/X24Labs/SWAgent/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue" alt="License MIT"></a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.7-3178c6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white" alt="TypeScript">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/frameworks-7-green" alt="7 frameworks">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Node%20%7C%20Bun%20%7C%20Deno-999" alt="platform">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#quick-start">Quick Start</a> &middot;
  <a href="#frameworks">Frameworks</a> &middot;
  <a href="#cli">CLI</a> &middot;
  <a href="#configuration">Config</a>
</p>

---

## Why

LLM agents read your docs too. Swagger UI is built for humans clicking through a browser. SWAgent generates three outputs from one OpenAPI spec:

| Output | For | What it is |
|--------|-----|------------|
| **`llms.txt`** | AI agents | Token-optimized compact notation, ~60% smaller than raw JSON |
| **`to-humans.md`** | Developers | Full markdown reference with ToC, parameter tables, response schemas |
| **`index.html`** | Humans + AI agents | HTML landing for browsers. Send `Accept: text/markdown` and it returns the AI-optimized format directly — no separate URL needed. |

Your API becomes readable by both humans and machines without maintaining separate docs.

## What llms.txt looks like

A 20-endpoint OpenAPI spec compresses into something like this:

```
# Pet Store API

> A sample API for managing pets and orders.

Base: https://api.petstore.io
Docs: [HTML](https://api.petstore.io/) | [OpenAPI JSON](https://api.petstore.io/openapi.json)

## Auth Methods
- JWT: `Authorization: Bearer <token>` via POST /auth/login
- API Key: `X-API-Key: <key>` header

## Conventions
- Auth: JWT = Bearer token, KEY = API Key, JWT|KEY = either, NONE = no auth
- `*` after field name = required, all fields string unless noted with `:type`
- Common errors: 400/401/404 return `{success:false, error}`

---

## Auth

### POST /auth/login - Login | NONE
Body: `{email*, password*}`
200: `{token, expiresIn:number}`

## Pets

### GET /pets - List pets | JWT
Query: ?page:integer ?limit:integer ?species
200: `{data:[{id, name, species, age:number}], total:number}`

### POST /pets - Create pet | JWT
Body: `{name*, species*, age:number, vaccinated:boolean}`
200: `{id, name}`

### GET /pets/{petId} - Get pet | JWT|KEY
Path: :petId*
200: `{id, name, species, age:number, vaccinated:boolean, owner:{id, name}}`
```

Compact notation: `*` = required, `:type` = non-string, `{...}` = object, `[...]` = array.

An LLM agent reads this with minimal token cost and immediately knows every endpoint, auth method, and schema.

## Quick start

### Three lines, four endpoints

```typescript
import { swagentFastify } from '@swagent/fastify';

// After registering @fastify/swagger with your routes:
app.register(swagentFastify, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' });

// GET /           -> HTML landing page
// GET /llms.txt   -> Token-optimized for AI agents
// GET /to-humans.md -> Full markdown docs
// GET /openapi.json -> OpenAPI JSON spec
```

That's it. Your API now serves AI-readable docs alongside human ones.

## Frameworks

### Fastify

```bash
npm install @swagent/fastify
```

```typescript
import Fastify from 'fastify';
import swagger from '@fastify/swagger';
import { swagentFastify } from '@swagent/fastify';

const app = Fastify();

app.register(swagger, {
  openapi: {
    info: { title: 'My API', version: '1.0.0' },
    servers: [{ url: 'https://api.example.com' }],
  },
});

// Define your routes with schemas as usual...

app.register(swagentFastify, {
  baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com',
});
```

Reads the spec from `@fastify/swagger` automatically. Content is generated once at startup.

### Express

```bash
npm install @swagent/express
```

```typescript
import express from 'express';
import { swagentExpress } from '@swagent/express';

const app = express();
const spec = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('./openapi.json', 'utf-8'));

app.use(swagentExpress(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or mount on a subpath:
app.use('/docs', swagentExpress(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));
```

Takes the OpenAPI spec as a parameter. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### Hono

```bash
npm install @swagent/hono
```

```typescript
import { Hono } from 'hono';
import { swagentHono } from '@swagent/hono';

const app = new Hono();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };

app.route('/', swagentHono(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or on a subpath:
app.route('/docs', swagentHono(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));
```

### Elysia

```bash
npm install @swagent/elysia
```

```typescript
import { Elysia } from 'elysia';
import { swagentElysia } from '@swagent/elysia';

const app = new Elysia();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };

app.use(swagentElysia(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or with a prefix:
app.use(
  new Elysia({ prefix: '/docs' })
    .use(swagentElysia(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }))
);
```

Bun-native. Follows the Elysia plugin pattern with `.use()`. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### Koa

```bash
npm install @swagent/koa
```

```typescript
import Koa from 'koa';
import { swagentKoa } from '@swagent/koa';

const app = new Koa();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };
const swagent = swagentKoa(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' });

app.use(swagent.routes());
app.use(swagent.allowedMethods());

// Or mount on a subpath with @koa/router:
const Router = require('@koa/router');
const parent = new Router();
parent.use('/docs', swagent.routes(), swagent.allowedMethods());
app.use(parent.routes());
```

Returns a `@koa/router` Router instance. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### h3 (Nitro / Nuxt)

```bash
npm install @swagent/h3
```

```typescript
import { createApp } from 'h3';
import { swagentH3 } from '@swagent/h3';

const app = createApp();
const spec = { /* your OpenAPI spec */ };

app.use(swagentH3(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' }));

// Or in a Nitro server middleware (server/middleware/swagent.ts):
import { useBase } from 'h3';
export default useBase('/docs', swagentH3(spec).handler);
```

Returns an h3 Router. Compatible with h3, Nitro, and Nuxt server routes. Content is lazily cached on first request.

### NestJS

```bash
npm install @swagent/nestjs
```

**Option 1: Module pattern** (DI-based, NestJS-idiomatic)

```typescript
import { SwagentModule } from '@swagent/nestjs';

@Module({
  imports: [
    SwagentModule.register({
      spec: openApiDocument,
      baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com',
    }),
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

**Option 2: Setup pattern** (mirrors `SwaggerModule.setup()`)

```typescript
import { SwagentModule } from '@swagent/nestjs';
import { SwaggerModule, DocumentBuilder } from '@nestjs/swagger';

const config = new DocumentBuilder()
  .setTitle('My API')
  .setVersion('1.0')
  .build();
const document = SwaggerModule.createDocument(app, config);

SwaggerModule.setup('api', app, document);
SwagentModule.setup(app, document, { path: '/docs' });
```

The module pattern uses NestJS DI with lazy caching. The setup pattern registers routes directly on the HTTP adapter with full route customization.

### Core (programmatic)

```bash
npm install @swagent/core
```

```typescript
import { generate } from '@swagent/core';

const spec = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('./openapi.json', 'utf-8'));
const output = generate(spec, { baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com' });

output.llmsTxt;      // Token-optimized markdown string
output.humanDocs;    // Full markdown string
output.htmlLanding;  // Complete HTML string
```

## CLI

```bash
npx swagent generate ./openapi.json
```

```bash
# Full options
swagent generate ./openapi.json -o ./docs -b https://api.example.com -f all

# From a URL
swagent generate https://api.example.com/openapi.json

# Single format
swagent generate ./spec.json -f llms-txt
swagent generate ./spec.json -f human
swagent generate ./spec.json -f html

# Watch mode: regenerate on spec changes
swagent generate ./spec.json --watch
```

| Flag | Short | Default | Description |
|------|-------|---------|-------------|
| `--output-dir` | `-o` | `./docs` | Output directory |
| `--base-url` | `-b` | from spec | Base URL for generated docs |
| `--format` | `-f` | `all` | `llms-txt`, `human`, `html`, or `all` |
| `--title` | `-t` | from spec | Override API title |
| `--theme` | | `dark` | `dark` or `light` |
| `--watch` | `-w` | `false` | Watch spec file for changes and regenerate |

Outputs: `llms.txt`, `to-humans.md`, `index.html`

## Token optimization

SWAgent compresses your OpenAPI spec into a compact notation designed to minimize token usage while preserving all the information an LLM agent needs.

| Technique | Example |
|-----------|---------|
| Required fields | `name*` instead of `"name": { "required": true }` |
| Type annotations | `age:number` instead of `"age": { "type": "number" }` |
| Inline objects | `{id, name, email}` instead of full JSON schema |
| Auth shorthands | `JWT`, `KEY`, `NONE` instead of full security definitions |
| Convention dedup | Common errors defined once, not repeated per endpoint |
| Response focus | Only 200 responses (errors covered by conventions) |

Result: **~60% smaller** than raw OpenAPI JSON, **~50% smaller** than standard markdown docs.

## Configuration

All adapters and the CLI accept the same options:

```typescript
{
  // Base URL of the API
  baseUrl: 'https://api.example.com',

  // Override the API title from the spec
  title: 'My API',

  // Color theme for HTML landing (default: 'dark')
  theme: 'dark' | 'light',

  // Route paths (adapters only)
  routes: {
    landing: '/',              // or false to disable
    llmsTxt: '/llms.txt',     // or false to disable
    humanDocs: '/to-humans.md', // or false to disable
    openapi: '/openapi.json',  // or false to disable
  },
}
```

### Custom routes

```typescript
app.register(swagentFastify, {
  routes: {
    landing: '/docs',
    llmsTxt: '/docs/llms.txt',
    humanDocs: '/docs/humans.md',
    openapi: '/docs/spec.json',
  },
});
```

### Disable specific routes

```typescript
app.use(swagentExpress(spec, {
  routes: {
    humanDocs: false,  // Don't serve markdown
    openapi: false,    // Don't expose raw spec
  },
}));
```

## Caching

Every adapter returns `ETag` and `Cache-Control: public, max-age=3600` headers on all endpoints. Clients that send `If-None-Match` with a matching ETag receive a `304 Not Modified` response with no body, saving bandwidth on repeated requests. The landing page also returns `Vary: accept` since its response varies by the `Accept` header.

## Content negotiation

LLM agents don't need to know about `/llms.txt`. The root URL serves the right format based on the `Accept` header — standard HTTP, no URL convention required.

- **Default (`text/html`)** — HTML landing page for browsers
- **`Accept: text/markdown`** — returns the `llms.txt` content directly, same URL

The agent hits the base URL it already has. One request, right format. No discovery step, no `/llms.txt` path to hardcode or explain.

```bash
# Browser: HTML landing page
curl https://api.example.com/

# LLM agent: token-optimized docs, same URL
curl -H "Accept: text/markdown" https://api.example.com/

# Check token count before downloading (HEAD request)
curl -I -H "Accept: text/markdown" https://api.example.com/
# x-markdown-tokens: 1842
```

The markdown response includes `x-markdown-tokens: N` (estimated token count) and `Vary: accept` for correct CDN caching. ETags are per-variant, so `If-None-Match` works correctly for both HTML and markdown responses.

## Error handling

If the OpenAPI spec is malformed or generation fails for any reason, all adapters serve fallback content instead of crashing. Endpoints return a `200` with a "Documentation generation failed" message so your application stays up while the spec issue is resolved.

## Route map

Every adapter serves the same four routes by default:

| Route | Content-Type | Description |
|-------|-------------|-------------|
| `GET /` | `text/html` or `text/markdown` | Landing page (HTML default). Send `Accept: text/markdown` to receive the `llms.txt` content directly. |
| `GET /llms.txt` | `text/plain` | Compact notation optimized for LLM token budgets |
| `GET /to-humans.md` | `text/markdown` | Full reference with ToC, parameter tables, schemas |
| `GET /openapi.json` | `application/json` | Raw OpenAPI spec passthrough |

## Packages

| Package | Description | Peer deps |
|---------|-------------|-----------|
| [`@swagent/core`](packages/core) | Generators and types | none |
| [`@swagent/fastify`](packages/fastify) | Fastify plugin | `fastify >=4` |
| [`@swagent/express`](packages/express) | Express middleware | `express >=5` |
| [`@swagent/hono`](packages/hono) | Hono middleware | `hono >=4` |
| [`@swagent/elysia`](packages/elysia) | Elysia plugin | `elysia >=1.4` |
| [`@swagent/koa`](packages/koa) | Koa middleware | `koa >=2`, `@koa/router >=12` |
| [`@swagent/h3`](packages/h3) | h3 middleware | `h3 ^1.13` |
| [`@swagent/nestjs`](packages/nestjs) | NestJS module | `@nestjs/common >=10`, `@nestjs/core >=10` |
| [`swagent`](packages/cli) | CLI tool | none |

## Development

```bash
bun install
bun run build
bun run test -- --run
bun run typecheck
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repo
2. Create your branch (`git checkout -b feature/thing`)
3. Write tests for new functionality
4. Make sure all tests pass (`bun run test -- --run`)
5. Submit a PR

## License

MIT
